= Overview

Discover most advanced features of Slurm-web.

== Dashboard

Slurm-web includes a dashboard with high-level metrics to get quick insight of
HPC clusters status and operation:

image::screenshot_dashboard_tablet.png[width=80%]

== Multi-Clusters

Slurm-web can be deployed on a central server to monitor all HPC clusters in
your organization from a unique interface.

image::slurm-web_multi-clusters.png[width=600]

From anywhere in the interface, you can jump to another cluster and easily
compare there statuses:

image::screenshot_cluster_change.png[width=600]

== Jobs Status

[.float-group]
--
image::screenshot_job_badges.png[float=left]

{empty} +

Easily visualize jobs status with colored badges and quickly spot possible
failures.

Slurm-web represents Slurm jobs status with a visual colored badge. This really
helps to figure out status of the jobs queue at a glance. Never miss errors when
they occur!
--

== Jobs filters and sorting

Jobs queue can be filtered by many criteria (job state, user, account, QOS,
partition) and sorted by priority, ID, state, user, etc…

image::screenshot_jobs_filters.png[width=80%]

Filters can be applied and removed instantly with just a few clicks. It becomes
really trivial to observe specific job flows and better understand Slurm
scheduling.

== Live Jobs Status

Slurm-web gives the possibility to track specific jobs during their lifetime
with live updates:

image::screenshot_job_status.png[]

Watch your jobs running with visual representation of their progress.

[#nodes-status]
== Nodes Status

Live status of the compute nodes can be visualized in an advanced interactive
graphical representation of the racks based on data extracted from
xref:racksdb:overview:start.adoc[RacksDB]. Just move the mouse pointer over a
specific node to get all details:

image::screenshot_nodes_hovering.png[]

Filters can be applied to quickly figure out nodes out of production:

image::screenshot_nodes_issues.png[]

The cluster status can be displayed in fullscreen to get constant overview of
its health and activity.

image::slurm-web_nodes_fullscreen.png[with=500px]

== GPU Support

Slurm-web provides advanced support for GPU resources, offering a visual and
intuitive interface to monitor and manage GPU usage across the cluster. It
displays real-time information and metrics on GPU availability and allocation
per node, making it easy to track how GPU resources are being used by jobs.

This feature is especially beneficial for AI and Machine Learning workflows,
where efficient access to and monitoring of GPU resources is critical. Data
scientists and ML engineers can quickly identify available GPUs, monitor
job-specific GPU usage, and troubleshoot — without needing deep knowledge of
Slurm's CLI commands. This streamlined visibility significantly improves
productivity and resource efficiency in GPU-accelerated workloads.

== Advanced Reservations

Resources can be pre-allocated for a particular usage in Slurm with *advanced
reservations*. Slurm-web displays these reservations with their resources,
duration, authorized users and accounts:

image::screenshot_reservations.png[width=80%]

== QOS

Slurm supports *QOS* with many features and plenty of parameters. Slurm-web
displays the defined QOS in a synthetic way:

image::screenshot_qos.png[width=80%]

It becomes easy to spot differences between QOS and change limits to adjust the
scheduling policy. The user interface includes built-in help messages to easily
understand involved limits:

image::slurm-web_integrated_help.png[]

== Reactive

Slurm-web interface is continuously updated in near real-time with fresh data
fetched from clusters. Tables and diagrams are updated atomically with latest
changes. You never need to reload pages.

== Responsive

Slurm-web interface is designed to be accessible on all devices, from
smartphones to largest desktop screens.

image::slurm-web_responsive.png[width=80%]

== Enterprise Authentication

Slurm-web supports users authentication with enterprise LDAP directory (FreeIPA,
Active Directory, OpenLDAP, etc…).

image::screenshot_auth.png[width=80%]

Access can be restricted to specific groups of users. Both legacy NIS and RFC
2307 bis schemas are fully supported.

== Advanced RBAC Permissions

Administrators can define advanced authorization policy based on roles (RBAC)
and LDAP groups to control all users permissions in Slurm-web.

image::screenshot_rbac.png[width=80%]

[sidebar]
--
.More links
* xref:conf:policy.adoc[Authorization Policy reference documentation]
--

== Custom Service Messages

Integrate custom service message directly in Slurm-web interface to communicate
efficiently with users:

image::screenshot_login_service_message.png[]

[sidebar]
--
.More links
* xref:conf:messages.adoc[Service Messages configuration documentation]
--

[#cache]
== Transparent Caching

Slurm-web can use Redis in-memory database to cache Slurm status, in order to
maximize performances and significantly reduce load on Slurm scheduler.

image::slurm-web_transparent_cache.png[]

Users are able to track jobs list in near real-time very efficiently. Finally
drop the load generated by infinite loops of `squeue`!

[#metrics]
== Metrics

Slurm-web is designed to integrate with https://prometheus.io/[Prometheus] (or
any compatible solution) to manage many Slurm metrics.

image::slurm-web_metrics.png[]

Metrics of the computing resources statuses and the jobs are exported in
standard https://openmetrics.io/[OpenMetrics] format, designed to be collected
by Prometheus and stored in timeseries database. Slurm-web query this database
to produce charts with these metrics.

image::slurm-web_charts.png[width=80%]

These graphs give you a clear view of the evolution of the state of your
production HPC clusters.

[sidebar]
--
.More links
* xref:conf:metrics.adoc[Metrics feature configuration documentation]
--
